# SFND_Radar

## Selecting training and guard cells for 2D-CFAR

### Selecting cells

We'll pad the Cell Under Test (CUT) with training and guard cells.
In 1D, if we picked 5 training and 2 guard cells, our window would look like:
T T T T T G G CUT G G T T T T T
In total, we would have 10 training and 4 guard cells.

In 2D, if we picked 5 range training (rT), 2 doppler training (dT), 2 range guard (rG) and 1 doppler guard (dG), our moving grid would look like:
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T
T T T T T G G G G G G T T T T T
T T T T T G G CUT G G T T T T T
T T T T T G G G G G G T T T T T
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T

Also, since our CUT is padding by seven cells, we'll skip the first seven cells AND the last seven cells in each dimension and set their signal to 0.

### Notes from selecting training cells

According to the lesson, the number of training cells should be selected based on the environment. In a scene with dense traffic, fewer cells should be used (presumably to avoid overlapping detected bodies). For this exercise, there is only one target, but we still have to be careful not to over filter.

From looking at the RDM raw data generated by the 2D-FFT, for a 512x128 dataset the ROI is about 20x5. We don't want to make the training + guard cells bigger than the range we're looking for so that we don't average out our target.

Using trial and error we'll experiment with training and guard cells < 20 in range.

### Notes from selecting guard cells

Guard cells are used to protect the target cells from being considered in noise estimate done by the training cells.

## Threshold offset

An offset to the threshold. If the signal strength is logarithmic, the offset should be added, not multiplied.
We'll select the threshold offset by trail and error, we do not want to cut off points we're interested in, but we also don't want to keep too much clutter in the CFAR output.